README.md, before:

# Welcome to Authorly

## Here be Dragons

## Setup the application

1. Clone the repository on your machine
1. Create a suitable `config/database.yml` (production runs on MySQL)
1. `bundle install`
1. `bundle exec rake db:create:all`
1. `bundle exec rake db:migrate`
1. `bundle exec rake db:seed`
1. `bundle exec rails server` starts the server


## Setup for getting transcoded video and audio versions

  `bundle exec zencoder_fetcher --loop --interval 10 --url 'http://127.0.0.1:3000/zencoder' <ZENCODER_API_KEY>`


## Setup for creating mobile applications

Install dependencies:

1. Install [redis](http://redis.io/)
1. Clone the mobile code

     cd ../..
     git clone git@github.com:curiousminds/interapptive.git
     mv interapptive Crucible

Start workers:

1. `redis-server` starts redis
1. `bundle exec rake environment resque:work QUEUE='ios_compilation' RAILS_ENV=development` starts the compilation queue


Start compilation from the web application ('Compile to iOS' icon). Currently does not work because the code assumes it is run by a certain user, needs the keychain password in `config/keychain_password.txt`.
Stopped trying to make this work on my machine. `2013-06-19` `@dira`


## Tests

### Rails tests

    `bundle exec rake`

Continuous testing:

    `bundle exec guard -i`

### Javascript tests

1. Install [PhantomJS](https://github.com/netzpirat/guard-jasmine#phantomjs)


In the browser:

    `bundle exec guard -i`

The output contains the URL where it mounted the jasmine runner (something like http://localhost:[port]/jasmine).
That URL works in the browser and you have the full UI (i.e. you can click on a test and it will only run that test)


Command line:

    `guard-jasmine`

    or

    `bundle exec rake guard:jasmine`


### Write Javascript tests

Write your model, view or collections tests under corresponding directories inside `spec/javascripts/coffeescripts`.

## Builder

### Synopsis

Builder is a custom widget framework/base class that provides a relevant API for making and running different type of widgets, which are objects that can be  added to the canvas. Builder abstracts cocos2d-js which is a two-dimensional drawing library that's primarily used functionally. In this way, Builder provides a nice inheritable OO interface, which is great for testing and great for reuse.

### Some important Cocos2d Concepts

First, you should see [this link](http://www.cocos2d.org/doc/programming_guide/basic_concepts.html) for more information about the core concepts of Cocos.

To summarize, however:

- A **scene** is pretty self-explanatory. Think levels on a video game, or multiple, independent televisions screens. They're mostly independent of each other, but they have some logic for transitioning between each other
- The **director**, a singleton object that handles transitions between scenes, and handles main window instantiation in py-cocos2d;
- **Layers** are used to handle z-orientation of groups of items. Frequently are the location where event handlers are defined, and respond to events from front to back until one layer handles an event.
- **Sprites** are 2d images that can be transformed.
- **Events** are part of a standard Subscribe pattern. In short, some items act as emitters, which send out notifications when they receive certain stimulus. Other objects that have subscribed to the notifications will receive this notification and can chose to respond to it (called Listeners, usually).
    - Cocos uses events to specify user input, window status change, and to communicate across parts of a framework (decoupling).
- **CocosNode** is the superclass of the above (omitting the director?), and provides some default common functionality like positioning, controlling child elements, time management, and rendering.

### Where to find Builder

Find it in `app/assets/javascripts/builder/`.

### How it loads

(Note: all paths are relative to `app/assets/javascripts` unless otherwise
specified.)

1. Its dependencies are loaded by application.js and then `builder/index` is loaded.
2. This loads some hotpatches for cocos2d, and requires `builder/init`.
3. `builder/init` creates an `initBuilder` function on `window` that is presumably called later.
4. `builder/app_delegate` sets up a namespace for Builder's instantiated classes and deals with setting up the AppDelegate for cocos2d (why? what purpose does this serve?)
5. `builder/builder` does the following:
    - it defines Builder, which is a subclass of cc.Layer;
    - it instantiates a new widget layer as its child;
    - it sets builder's scene to the present scene, and sets builder as the child of the scene;
    - sets Builder.node to an instance of Builder if #new and #init succeed;
    - sets window.Builder to Builder.

### Widgets

Widgets are represented by two classes - a Backbone Model (that stores and manages the widget data) and a Builder View (which takes care of representing it on the UI and managing events).

### How widgets work

1. The WidgetLayer manages widget space. It performs the following tasks too:
    - sets up a double-click watcher for the canvas;
    - defines methods for adding and removing widgets;
    - defines a method for getting a widget at a point
    - handles touch behaviour/moving and translates that into mouse behaviour.

2. The Widget parent class is what all widgets inherit from. It defines:
    - abstract mouseover/mouseout/dblclick responses;
    - abstract highlighting
    - opacity setters and getters

### FAQ

#### What is cc?

`cc` is the Cocos2d namespace.


### Fixtures

Reside in /spec/fixtures

Loading:

    > cp spec/fixtures/stranger-in-the-woods.yml db/data.yml
    > bundle exec rake db:data:load


Grab the JSON - in the web inspector console:

    > storybook = App.currentSelection.get('storybook')
    > json = (new App.JSON(storybook)).app
    > JSON.stringify(json)

Run the iOS simulator:

* copy the json from the web inspector console (without the encompassing quotes)
* paste it over `HelloWorld/Resources/structure-ipad.json` (in the `interapptive` project)
* fix the asset paths by running

    > sed -i '' 's/read_it_myself/read-it-myself/g;s/auto_play/autoplay/g;s/read_to_me/read-to-me/g;s/\/assets\/sprites\///g;s/https:\/\/interapptive.s3.amazonaws.com\/[a-z_]*\/[0-9]*\///g' HelloWorld/Resources/structure-ipad.json
* run the iOS project ( `HelloWorld/ios` in the interraptive repo)

Commit message:

Upgrade cocos2d from alpha to v2.2 #1235
Cocos2d-html v2.0 #1235

loaded
no builder functionality yet

Working example from their website #1235

WidgetLayer shows widgets #1235

WidgetLayer with touches and context menu #1235

Refactor & cleanup #1235

Precompile cocos2d and builder assets #1235

Refactor cocos2d storybook initialization #1235

Improve Readme formatting #1235

Cocos2d-html v2.2 #1235

drawing 2d shapes and touches not working yet

Cocos2d v2.2 not working yet #1235

used canvas rendering instead of webgl (could not
figure out how to draw properly - look at DrawNode
and DrawingPrimitive - with multiple implementations)

still not able to draw properly

touches don't work

Panels working #1235

Improve initialization order #1235

Sprite load status fixed for v2.2 #1235

Correct calculation of touch coordinates #1235

Mouseover sprites working #1235

but not when clicking on a scene that is not the
main menu or a keyframe that is not the animation
:|

Widgets working #1235

Right click menu works on widgets #1235

And cursors! #1235

Higher frame rate #1235

Added docs and removed code #1235

yay documenting!

Unify canvas references in WidgetLayer #1235

Use jquery for onmousemove #1235

instead of cocos2d's event
which is hijacked some jquery plugins (sortable -
when clicking on a scene or keyframe to active it,
and context menu on widgets)

Use jquery events instead of cocos2d events all the way #1235

they work better

Precompile init_storybook as well #1235

Remove commented code #1235

Fix text widget rect computation #1235

Fix editable text position #1235

Conflicts:
	app/assets/javascripts/app/views/widgets/text_widget.js.coffee
	app/assets/javascripts/builder/widgets/text_widget.js.coffee
	app/assets/javascripts/init_storybook.js.coffee
	app/views/storybooks/show.html.haml
	config/environments/production.rb
	config/environments/staging.rb

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Authorly

## Here be Dragons

## Setup the application

1. Clone the repository on your machine
1. Create a suitable `config/database.yml` (production runs on MySQL)
1. `bundle install`
1. `bundle exec rake db:create:all`
1. `bundle exec rake db:migrate`
1. `bundle exec rake db:seed`
1. `bundle exec rails server` starts the server


## Setup for getting transcoded video and audio versions

  `bundle exec zencoder_fetcher --loop --interval 10 --url 'http://127.0.0.1:3000/zencoder' <ZENCODER_API_KEY>`


## Setup for creating mobile applications

Install dependencies:

1. Install [redis](http://redis.io/)
1. Clone the mobile code

     cd ../..
     git clone git@github.com:curiousminds/interapptive.git
     mv interapptive Crucible

Start workers:

1. `redis-server` starts redis
1. `bundle exec rake environment resque:work QUEUE='ios_compilation' RAILS_ENV=development` starts the compilation queue


Start compilation from the web application ('Compile to iOS' icon). Currently does not work because the code assumes it is run by a certain user, needs the keychain password in `config/keychain_password.txt`.
Stopped trying to make this work on my machine. `2013-06-19` `@dira`


## Tests

### Rails tests

    `bundle exec rake`

Continuous testing:

    `bundle exec guard -i`

### Javascript tests

1. Install [PhantomJS](https://github.com/netzpirat/guard-jasmine#phantomjs)


In the browser:

    `bundle exec guard -i`

The output contains the URL where it mounted the jasmine runner (something like http://localhost:[port]/jasmine).
That URL works in the browser and you have the full UI (i.e. you can click on a test and it will only run that test)


Command line:

    `guard-jasmine`

    or

    `bundle exec rake guard:jasmine`


### Write Javascript tests

Write your model, view or collections tests under corresponding directories inside `spec/javascripts/coffeescripts`.

## Builder

### Synopsis

Builder is a custom widget framework/base class that provides a relevant API for making and running different type of widgets, which are objects that can be  added to the canvas. Builder abstracts cocos2d-js which is a two-dimensional drawing library that's primarily used functionally. In this way, Builder provides a nice inheritable OO interface, which is great for testing and great for reuse.

Find it in `app/assets/javascripts/builder/`.

### Some important Cocos2d Concepts

First, you should see [this link](http://www.cocos2d.org/doc/programming_guide/basic_concepts.html) for more information about the core concepts of Cocos.

To summarize, however:

- A **scene** is pretty self-explanatory. Think levels on a video game, or multiple, independent televisions screens. They're mostly independent of each other, but they have some logic for transitioning between each other
- The **director**, a singleton object that handles transitions between scenes, and handles main window instantiation in py-cocos2d;
- **Layers** are used to handle z-orientation of groups of items. Frequently are the location where event handlers are defined, and respond to events from front to back until one layer handles an event.
- **Sprites** are 2d images that can be transformed.
- **Events** are part of a standard Subscribe pattern. In short, some items act as emitters, which send out notifications when they receive certain stimulus. Other objects that have subscribed to the notifications will receive this notification and can chose to respond to it (called Listeners, usually).
    - Cocos uses events to specify user input, window status change, and to communicate across parts of a framework (decoupling).
- **CocosNode** is the superclass of the above (omitting the director?), and provides some default common functionality like positioning, controlling child elements, time management, and rendering.

`cc` is the Cocos2d namespace.

Cocos2d-html links:

* [code](https://github.com/cocos2d/cocos2d-html5)
* [download](http://www.cocos2d-x.org/download/version#Cocos2d-html5)
* [upgrade guides](http://www.cocos2d-x.org/wiki/Upgrade_Guides_html5)
* [docs](http://www.cocos2d-x.org/reference/html5-js/V2.2/index.html)

### Loading

1. application.js, with all generic js
1. `/storybook/show` starts loading cocos2d
1. the cocos2d configuration indicates that, when cocos2d is ready, `builder` should be laoded
1. cocos2d automatically loads `/main.js`, which is redirected (from Rails) to `/assets/init_storybook.js`
1. which initializes the builder and makes the canvas work


### Widgets

Widgets are represented by two classes - a Backbone Model (that stores and manages the widget data) and a Builder View (which takes care of representing it on the UI and managing events).

### How widgets work

1. The WidgetLayer manages widget space. It performs the following tasks too:
    - sets up a double-click watcher for the canvas;
    - defines methods for adding and removing widgets;
    - defines a method for getting a widget at a point
    - handles touch behaviour/moving and translates that into mouse behaviour.

2. The Widget parent class is what all widgets inherit from. It defines:
    - abstract mouseover/mouseout/dblclick responses;
    - abstract highlighting
    - opacity setters and getters



### Fixtures

Reside in /spec/fixtures

Loading:

    > cp spec/fixtures/stranger-in-the-woods.yml db/data.yml
    > bundle exec rake db:data:load


Grab the JSON - in the web inspector console:

    > storybook = App.currentSelection.get('storybook')
    > json = (new App.JSON(storybook)).app
    > JSON.stringify(json)

Run the iOS simulator:

* copy the json from the web inspector console (without the encompassing quotes)
* paste it over `HelloWorld/Resources/structure-ipad.json` (in the `interapptive` project)
* fix the asset paths by running

    > sed -i '' 's/read_it_myself/read-it-myself/g;s/auto_play/autoplay/g;s/read_to_me/read-to-me/g;s/\/assets\/sprites\///g;s/https:\/\/interapptive.s3.amazonaws.com\/[a-z_]*\/[0-9]*\///g' HelloWorld/Resources/structure-ipad.json
* run the iOS project ( `HelloWorld/ios` in the interraptive repo)
